Welcome to the Life Church Podcast.
We are in Acts 2.42 community, a family on a mission to bring a life of Jesus to warranty.
We hope you are ready to hear what God has to say to you today through His Word and by His Spirit.
Good morning.
Yes, as Lucas has said, we are continuing our series on the Raymond Road.
And the headline for me this morning is confess and believe.
So, Dale started a series looking at the fact that we are all sinners.
We all fall short of the glory of God.
Then Rob talked about how Christ died for us.
Despite the fact that we were still sinners, Jesus came and became our Savior, became our bridge to God.
So this week we are looking at
How the process of salvation, but more what it should then cause us to do.
What that revelation in Christ and following him causes us to do.
And we are in Romans 10.
So if you have a Bible, feel free to turn to that now.
But we're looking at a specific verse, Romans 10, verse nine.
And I just wanted to give a bit of context of the entire chapter before honing in on that verse.
So Paul is talking to the Roman church.
He is himself a Jew who has experienced conversion to Christ.
And one of his main jobs, one of his main kind of callings on his life is to see people from the Jewish faith come to faith in Jesus.
And so a lot of this chapter is trying to explain how, you know, we have maybe
been trying to earn our salvation by doing things, by sticking to the law, by having all these rules.
But actually salvation is from God alone.
It's a gift from God alone through Jesus' death and resurrection.
And the context he's speaking to is a church that has been built from people with a background of the Jewish faith and also from
no faith at all.
So he's also trying to unify that church together and saying that salvation is available to all.
So Romans 10 verse nine says this, if you declare with your mouth, Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
So I'm gonna unpack what this means and break it down.
But before I go on, when I was given this verse,
I've got a bit stuck.
I was like, oh, I'm not sure what I think about this by itself, because it is tempting for us to hear this and be like, well, I need to go and share the gospel and tell people about Jesus in order to be saved.
There's a temptation for us to make it about what we need to do in order to be saved.
But I want us to remind ourselves of what Jesus tells us here, that God for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.
So I believe firmly that Jesus Christ is a central point to our salvation.
We don't have to work it out in order to receive it.
It's a free gift, but Paul is commenting on the fact that we have this inward belief and maybe there's something needs to happen externally as well.
So let's unpack the context.
Why would Paul then be saying you need to confess your faith?
What is the context, the audience that he's talking to?
So firstly,
as I've already touched on, he is speaking to the Jewish nation.
And this phrase, Jesus is Lord, declare with your mouth, Jesus is Lord, would have struck a chord particularly with the Jewish people because they themselves had and have similar phrasing.
They have something called the Shema, which is a declaration
of their faith, which says this in Deuteronomy 6, 4, here O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one.
So this statement of faith, this or creed is what we, another word for it, was something that the Jews declared to say that they were different.
We believe in one God.
We don't have many gods like you other nations.
We believe in one God who went with them wherever they traveled.
This was a core belief statement for the Jews.
So poor being aware of this and aware of the parameters of Judaism, I think when he's declaring, you need to declare that Jesus is Lord, what he's doing is he's identifying the Old Testament Lord with Jesus.
He's emphasizing that Jesus is a fulfillment of the Jewish faith, a continuation and not something new.
that should be avoided.
Okay, secondly, he's speaking to the culture.
So there's a whole other context.
We're in Rome.
Romans are in charge.
We have a Caesar who is in charge, and he's getting quite big for his boots.
He also thinks that he is God.
He is becoming divine, and he should be worshipped as such.
And so there is this thing of, well, you need to declare that Caesar is Lord.
And if you don't, then you could be killed.
And so I think Paul is saying, you know, well, that's not okay.
We're not going to be declaring that Caesar is Lord.
I was reminded of Mark 12, 17, when Jesus talks about this, it give back to Caesar, what is Caesar?
This is talking about taxes and to God, what is God's?
And they were amazed at him.
So Jesus was talking about, you know, we practically were part of this system.
We share our taxes, but our spiritual allegiance is to God.
And so Paul is saying, we need to stand against the culture.
We need to make a political statement here.
Thirdly, to protect and build on the Christian tradition.
So Paul not only is sharing the gospel, but he's also part of the early church
who was forming the foundations of a tradition that would get passed down for generations to come.
So this creed, Jesus is Lord, which is probably the shortest creed of the New Testament, is a core statement of what Christians believe.
And knowing what we believe, knowing our boundaries and our beliefs are really important, aren't they?
We need them.
We need to know our core beliefs.
Our church has them.
We have values on our website.
This is what we believe.
And it was important as they were laying these foundations to get that right.
We don't want to have any impurity being passed down.
We need to know what it is that we believe.
And they make up our identity and have stood the test of time.
And then lastly,
This could be for them and for us.
Confessing that Jesus' Lord also speaks to ourselves.
Galatians 2.20, Paul says, I have been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me.
The life I now live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
So when we declare,
that Jesus is Lord.
We are tying our allegiance, we are pledging our allegiance to Jesus.
If Jesus is Lord, then what we're saying is, well, I'm not.
I am giving my servitude, my obedience and surrendering my life to Him.
And from experience, that is something that happens, has to happen a lot.
Maybe even daily, we need to remind ourselves, Jesus, you are Lord.
and I am not.
Okay, let's move on in this verse onto, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead.
So the second half of that segment there forms another creed.
It's another statement of belief.
God raised him from the dead.
In order to be a Christian, you need to understand this truth.
If you don't believe this, then you're not a Christian, you know?
So this was really important to get this drill down.
It validates everything.
Resurrection validates the claims that Jesus made when he was alive.
Him rising from the dead confirms his claim that he is God.
He is God's son and has power over death.
And again, it fulfills that Old Testament prophecy.
This isn't new, this is a continuation.
And then believe in your heart.
So this I think is harder to grasp, isn't it?
Harder to kind of get language around, believing in your heart.
But I think what Paul is trying to say, that this is more than just something that you know to be true.
It's something more than knowledge.
It is knowledge that has consumed every single part of your being to produce that outward transformation.
So inward belief that has to produce a change in who we are.
So for the Jewish nation, you know, their identity was tied up in who they were and what they did.
But God is looking for, as Paul says in Romans 2, at circumcision of the heart.
And I think we see it a few times in Scripture when people know who Jesus is, they know that he's important, but they don't quite get it.
And I was reading the story of Martha and Mary, and that is preached on a lot, isn't it?
And lots of things are drawn out of that.
But I just wonder if
Martha just didn't quite get who was in her house that day.
Mary understood who he was.
Mary understood that she needed to be sat at his feet, listening and learning.
But Martha hadn't realized that actually, although hospitality is important and especially in that culture, it was more important to be with Jesus.
This was a special moment.
She hadn't quite received that depth of revelation.
So belief in your heart, causing us for it to change something outwardly.
The last bit of that verse, and you will be saved.
Paul is clear, there is no ifs or buts, so if you do this or if you do that, he's given us a confident assurance, and Richard will talk about that more next week.
We don't confess to achieve salvation, but that confession comes from an overflow of a belief in who Jesus is and what he has done for us and humanity.
It is an evidence of our belief.
So confession is part of our growth and it strengthens our faith in him.
So what does this mean for us?
What is he saying to us then this morning?
So I believe firstly, Paul is saying that God is not looking for anonymous Christians.
He is looking for Christians who are willing to share their faith, to let people know that Jesus has transformed their lives.
And I think firstly, the way that we can can confess is through baptism.
So if you're a
You know, if you believe that Jesus has died for you, but you haven't yet been baptized, I really encourage you to do that because it is a great moment of confession, of declaration in a public space.
And do come and talk to me if that's something you'd like to do.
And we'd love to walk that with you.
But yeah, so do people know that you're a Christian?
Do your friends, your work colleagues?
Why?
Why not?
That's a question for me as well, you know?
I love the book of James and it's quite... What's the word?
Hardline.
Yeah, hardline, I think.
And it talks about faith by itself if it's not accompanied by action.
It's dead.
And James uses the example of Abraham that he was made righteous.
and one with God because his action demonstrated a trust in him.
So our faith is an active living faith.
If our actions are showing that actually we rely more on ourselves than God, then what is that saying about our faith?
Secondly, God is looking at our hearts.
So has our belief and our understanding moved from that place of, I get that that's true and that
I'm saved to that sincere reliance on God.
Do we stake our lives on it?
Do we make life decisions on it?
Or do we tack our faith onto our weak?
Are we still the Lord of our own lives?
And I think, you know, if we're here this morning and I think we probably have to do it every day.
And we think, actually, yeah, Jesus, I'm not sure that you are Lord.
And I think that I've
like to be in control a lot of the time, then repentance is required, you know, and I think that's just what we do.
It's a constant coming to the Lord, isn't it?
Thirdly, the gospel needs to be shared.
So we
aren't in a society I don't think quite like what Paul was talking to.
We're not having to declare that someone else is Lord or pledge our allegiance to other people.
But our society still has creed, still has beliefs and still need Jesus.
You know, perhaps they think, well, let's drink and eat for tomorrow we die or you do you or all paths lead to God.
We hold the truth inside of us, all these things that aren't true.
And Paul says that a few verses are in Romans 10, 14 to 15.
How then can they call on the one they have not believed?
And how can they believe in the one of whom they have not heard?
And how can they hear without someone preaching to them?
And how can anyone preach unless they are sent?
As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news?
We have within us good news.
We have a gift that has been given us to us freely.
And there are people who don't yet know that.
There are people who are dying.
Believe in me and you will not perish.
Are we convicted by that truth?
Or do we take compassion like Jesus when we're interacting with other people?
Or maybe we think, well, that was Paul's job.
You know, that was his anointing.
He had a particular anointing and it can be tempting to think, well, that's not my role, my gifting.
I know for myself, the idea of sharing the gospel does not
come easily is not something that comes naturally.
It has to be like an intentional choice.
However, I'm reminded of what Jesus said before he went back to heaven in Matthew 28.
Go and make disciples of all nations baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you.
And surely,
I am with you always to the very end of the age.
I don't believe Jesus was just talking to his 11 disciples.
You know, he was talking to all of us that each and every one of us carry this light.
And as we go out, we have the amazing opportunity to share this truth, this light with other people.
And I just have this picture as we go out into our own walks of life.
bearing this light and just sharing that truth with Jesus.
You know, the wonderful thing is this could feel like a burden, but the promise is that he is with us.
God, the living God is with us and conviction and that revelation can only come through him.
We can partner with him, we can share that news, but whether that person responds in belief is not up to us.
And that just releases so much pressure, doesn't it?
But yeah, as we go out with our lights, we just have this picture of us with the people around us and other lights turning on.
And then they go in and other light turns on.
And that's the beauty, isn't it, of the gospel?
And that, you know, I just, that excites me.
Because when you see people,
Suddenly that realization that, oh, this is more than just something I've heard.
This is life-changing.
This is transformation.
And I realized that God loves me and that he wants to be in relationship with me.
And he created me.
When you see that penny drop in someone's face, you're like, wow, there is nothing better than this is there.
And we get to be part of that as his church, as his good news, as his hands and feet,
How amazing is that?
At the end of last year, Lucas shared with us that he felt that the law was saying to us that the last five years has been a time when life church has been a landing pad.
Lots of different people landing and worrying for different reasons.
We now need to be a launch pad.
a place that people launch from into mission and to serve our community.
So I just want to reiterate that sharing the gospel is an evidence.
It's an overflow of our relationship with him.
It's not a means to us, our salvation.
But what is it that's maybe stopping me, stopping you from doing that?
Perhaps it's the lack of knowing how.
Just practice.
Maybe we're scared of what people will think of us or being condemned by certain people.
But I don't know.
I'm just feeling like if we all felt we were doing this together, we'd be encouraged.
And if we started hearing those testimonies come in of, well, I shared the gospel or I told someone a Christian
that actually were really open to it, how encouraging would that be?
But I think that practice is really helpful in learning as well, just to get over that bump.
And there are a few things coming up that I'd love to invite you to, just to help and equip us in learning how to and to be more open in this.
And yeah, so March the 29th,
we are being, yeah, we have got Simon Gilbow coming to talk to us.
He's gonna be here the whole weekend, sharing at different events over Life Church, but he is a missionary.
He worked in Burundi for many years, and he still supports them with a charity in helping alleviate poverty, but also sharing.
the gospel.
But he's going to be with us.
He's going to preach here on the 29th of March.
But I kind of wanted to use his breadth of knowledge and experience to extend that time.
So we're going to ask him to participate in the question and answer lunch.
So after church on the 29th, we're going to go over to Bethel.
We'll have lunch together and then we'll
The floor will be open.
We can ask him different questions.
He is a really inspiring chap and I think will be really encouraged.
We're also looking at getting childcare as well because we want as many people to be able to come as possible.
So do you put that in your diaries?
And what I'll do is I'll send out an invitation as well so I can get numbers for food.
And as we heard in the notice video, we have got alpha coming up.
And this is a really good way, you know, if we're not confident in sharing the gospel or in having deep conversations about our faith.
It's a great way of bringing people along in spaces that do create conversation and go deeper.
So on the 9th of March, there is an explore and equip where you can just find out more.
Is there something you would like to bring your friends or family along to?
And then the actual course starts on the 13th of April.
at Bethel and there will be flyers on the front desk.
So please do take take some and start thinking and praying.
Like, is there anyone that God is just revealing to me is, you know what?
Yeah, I think they'd really be open to that.
Yeah, it'd be really good.
So I'm just going to read that verse over us again.
If you declare with your mouth, Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
It's gonna pray for us.
Lord God, I just thank you so much for your good news.
I thank you for your truth.
The truth is that we just have to believe and you've done everything else, Lord.
Lord, I'm excited by the idea of mission and sharing people, sharing with people who you are, Lord.
Help us to understand that you're with us, that your spirit empowers us to share, and that your gospel is so powerful, that we don't have to be great persuases, but your spirit does the work.
The truth of who you are is what people are waiting to hear.
Help us just realize that, that people are hungry and are missing your truth.
So Lord, as we go into our weeks, I just pray that we're looking out for people who are hungry for your truth.
Give us boldness and courage.
And help us support each other as we help build your kingdom.
And yeah, just help people come into it.
We're just so thankful for how wonderful that is.
We've come to the end of this week's message.
We hope you've been impacted and inspired.
Please keep up to date with everything that's happening by visiting our website at www.livechurchbarrington.com